v3-ui/src/assets/projects/project1/project1.md, before:

# Summer Orienteering
### Lab for CSCI-331: Intro to AI

In the sport of [orienteering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orienteering), you are given a map with terrain information, including elevation, contours, and a set of locations to visit. Success requires a combination of athletic and planning skills - a smart competitor who can figure out the best way to traverse the terrain may beat a more athletic competitor who makes poor choices!
In this lab, our goal was to create an algorithm to determine the best path between a list of coordinates given your ability to traverse different types of terrain.

![](assets/projects/project1/animated_terrain-EricDudley.gif)
#### Image: Animated Terrain Example (Credit: Eric Dudley)

## The Lab
The goal of this lab was to calculate the total distance traveled in meters given the **quickest** (not shortest) path through terrain. The following information was provided::
- An image file containing a 2D image of the terrain, where the color of each pixel represents the terrain type ("open land", "rough meadow", "footpath", etc.).
- A text file containing the Z or height component of each coordinate.
- A text file containing a list of coordinates that we must traverse through, in order.

## Implementation
Given the complexity of the problem space, I knew that choosing the correct data structures was crucial to a fast run time. Using a custom TerrainPoint class, manual hash functions, and a 2D dictionary, I was able to ensure O(1) access time for all data related to any coordinate.

The path finding algorithm was an adaption of A* using a priority queue. I used the Python heapq module to implement the priority queue, which holds instances of a PriorityNode class. For each node, the estimated cost, actual cost, distance traveled, and path to the node is stored. Among other benefits, this prevents wasting time by backtracking once the target node is reached.

When calculating the time to travel between two coordinates, the speed at which you can traverse each point, indicated by the color, is taken into account. This allows users of different athletic abilities to more accurately calculate the fastest path, provided their average speed throughout each type of terrain.

## Results

![](assets/projects/project1/output_terrain.png)

#### Image: Output of Full Test Case

The full test case used the 395x500 image above (197,500 coordinates) and the path contained 19 waypoints. The total distance traveled for the quickest path was 6746.7468m, and the program's runtime for this case was 0.29 seconds. This includes the time for reading the input files and generating the output image. The purple path in the image represents the fastest path found by the algorithm, which is guaranteed to be the fastest path with the provided speeds.

My sourcecode for this lab is not publicly available due to issues with academic integrity, but I will gladly provide it to you if you reach out (with good intentions, of course.)

Commit message:

Update article on project 1 summer orienteering

v3-ui/src/assets/projects/project1/project1.md, after:

# Summer Orienteering
### Lab for CSCI-331: Intro to AI

In the sport of [orienteering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orienteering), you are given a map with terrain information, including elevation, contours, and a set of locations to visit. Success requires a combination of athletic and planning skills - a smart competitor who can figure out the best way to traverse the terrain may beat a more athletic competitor who makes poor choices!
In this lab, we created a path finding algorithm to assist in the planning process.

![](assets/projects/project1/animated_terrain-EricDudley.gif)
#### Image: Animated Terrain Example (Credit: Eric Dudley)

## The Lab
The goal of this lab was to determine the **quickest** (not shortest) path following user-provided waypoints through different types of terrain. The user provides a 2D image of the terrain, an elevation file, and a waypoints file. Optionally, the user can modify the configuration of terrain speeds in program constants, allowing even more accuracy to be achieved during the planning process.

Specifically, these are the user provided inputs:
- An image file containing a 2D image of the terrain, where the color of each pixel represents the terrain type ("open land", "rough meadow", "footpath", etc.). Any number of terrain types can be configured, although the lab called for 10.
- A text file containing the Z or height component of each coordinate, separated by spaces (x separator) and newlines (y separator).
- A text file containing a list of coordinates that we must traverse through, in order (x y pairs)
- Optionally: A modification to the "speed map", a dictionary containing all terrain types (colors) and the speeds that they are mapped to.

After running, the program was required to output total length of the quickest path in meters.

## Implementation
Given the complexity of the problem space, I knew that choosing the correct data structures was crucial to a fast run time. Using a custom TerrainPoint class, manual hash functions, and a 2D dictionary, I was able to ensure O(1) access time for all data related to any coordinate after parsing the datafiles.

For the path finding algorithm, I used A* with a custom priority queue that I implemented using the Python heapq module. The priority queue holds instances of a PriorityNode class, which stores the estimated cost, actual cost, distanced traveled, and path for that node. Among other benefits, this prevents wasting time by backtracking once the target node is reached.

When calculating the time to travel between two coordinates, the speed at which you can traverse each point, indicated by the terrain type (pixel color), is taken into account. This allows users with varying athletic abilities to more accurately calculate the fastest path, provided their average speed throughout each type of terrain. In my implementation, meters per second is used for these, providing real-world accuracy.

## Results

![](assets/projects/project1/output_terrain.png)

#### Image: Output of Full Test Case

The full test case used the 395x500 image above (197,500 coordinates) and the path contained 19 waypoints. The total distance traveled for the quickest path found using my chosen traversal speeds was 6746.7468m. The program's runtime for this case was 0.29 seconds, including the time spent reading the input files and generating the output image. The purple path in the image represents the fastest path found by the algorithm, which is guaranteed to be the fastest path with the provided speeds.

My sourcecode for this lab is not publicly available due to issues with academic integrity, but I will happily provide it to you if you reach out (with good intentions, of course)! I love talking about my code, why I made the decisions I made, and what I could do better.

## Future Improvements

If I were to continue working on this project outside the classes specifications, I would focus on configurability and IO. The algorithm and data structures at the core of this application are efficient, compact, and adaptable. 

Some ideas are:
- Configurable speeds without having to modify the sourcecode.
- Ability to read in 3D files (STL, other 3D datatypes)
- Ability to automatically adapt to a number of terrain types
- Ability to track user traversing terrain and predict based on that
